Inheritance and polymorphism are important principles of object-oriented programming.
Inheritance is one way that classes can relate to each other.
Two classes might have a parent-child relationship such that
the child inherits members from the parent. Here's an example.
We might have an apple class that is the child of a fruit class.
Apples have their own varieties and other members,
but they also inherit members from the parent fruit class like seeds, for example.
Going further, the fruit class might be a child of the plant class.
The fruit class might inherit some members from the plant class,
maybe mass, for example.
The plant class has a mass, so its child,
the fruit class inherits this mass member, and therefore,
the apple class which is the child of
the fruit class also inherits the mass member from the plant class,
through the fruit class,
to the apple class.
Polymorphism is a related concept that
allows an interface to work with several different types.
To extend our analogy,
we might have a cut function that can work with the plant,
the fruit, or the apple class.
In fact, the cut function might accept totally different types of objects,
like a rope or a paper object.
On the other hand, we might have
a bruise function that works with fruits and with apples,
but not with plants.
The fact that a function can work with
multiple different types of data is an example of polymorphism.
Coming up, you're going to learn even more about inheritance and polymorphism in C++.
As always, you'll get to practice these topics in
several different examples and exercises. Let's get to it.